Before we can take a look at CSX grid syntax.
First and foremost we're going to need our setup.
Now if you don't feel like working on a setup.
Just head over to the resources of this video and you're gonna be able to find the source code.
Now the setup is going to be very very short.
So why don't we start working on it now first and foremost.
I'm going to create a folder and I'm going to name my folder grid tutorial but of course naming is really
up to you to torrio.
All right.
I have my tutorial now.
Now I would like to of course open up my text editor drag and drop it there.
Then within a text that are let's create index CML as well as style CSM styles.
Yes.
Then within the indexation email we can scaffold right away our the email setup or basic change the
email structure by just pressing the exclamation mark.
And there you go.
We have our Asian email setup now within the HDMI.
Why don't we write let's say as a title grid tutorial to draw your and then we also would like to have
our linked tags because we would like to link these styles to assess That's right.
Link styles.
See it says we have linked it correctly.
And then I also like to spin up my local dev server.
Now for that I'm going to use my extension my the name of preview on the web server.
Or you could also of course use the live server if you want it.
All right.
Now like I said preview on a web server that is going to be my choice and for my default browser I already
have the Firefox developer edition.
You can use Chrome you can use a regular Firefox.
It's really up to you.
The reason why I would suggest using Firefox browser is the fact that it has a nicer dev tools.
As far as says grid is concerned but you can follow along also with a Google Chrome.
It's really up to you.
So in order to spin it up I'm going to right click it and then I have an option of launch on the browser.
All right.
Now I also of course have the shortcut but I'm going to use it this time.
Then once I launched my dev server I'm going to set up my smaller browser windows side by side with
my text to her.
That's number one.
And then I'm going to also close this welcome tag.
I don't think I need it.
I can make my side much smaller and essentially close it altogether.
That's that.
Then within the body why don't we create a container.
So why we say there's going to be a div by the class of container and then also two more days.
Now for these particular there is I'm gonna use a little bit of I'm at magic where I'm gonna set up
post the class but then as a text within this particular div I'm gonna write cell and then let's just
get a number of.
So in this case we're going to create only two of them.
So no biggie later on this particular code can help us to let's say create 15 selves.
Okay.
Now I do have my indexation AML.
And lastly I'm just gonna add a style tax now within the staff tax as we're progressing through the
tutorial.
I'm going to write my C here because I find it more useful where our general setup is within ELC assessed
but then whatever styles as far as greatest concern we're going to add it in the indexation shameful
is that where you can write away c how many children we have.
What is our overall setup.
And along those lines.
All right.
Now of course as you would normally within your project well you're gonna use the style C as this or
any kind of stat sheet but for this particular scenario I'm going to use in fact the style tax within
the indexation.
Now once we have that setup then let's head over to style C assess and let's do a reset.
Okay.
Where we have a margin of zero then padding of zero as well as box sizing is going to be a boring box.
Now the reason why I'm going with a broader box is because when we have box sizing with a value of more
box if we have some kind of width for the element and in formatting let's say for example padding my
element is not gonna get bigger.
Okay.
Now what else I have within the ELC Asus I would want probably to select the body and then add some
fun family and not fun display on family and I'm going to go with Madonna then let's have maybe a colour
and colour is going to be hashtag to the tune.
Well that's my set up for the body.
And then why don't we target in fact the container first and foremost let's target the container and
what I would like to do is add a border all around.
So I'm gonna say five pixels solid now colour is up to you I'm gonna go with black and there you go.
We have our border as well as last thing that I would like to do within our general staff says is to
have some kind of styling for the cell.
So each and every grid item well eventually grid item.
Currently it's just a div with a glass of cell.
So let's say sell some targeting each and every cell and I'm gonna add some padding to our Ms.
Why don't we add some background and for the background.
I'm gonna go with the EDA.
The hash tag of course for my hex colour text transform I could go with uppercase for case what else
font weight is going to be bold and then I have text align center and then lastly I'm also going to
add a border around each and every cell just so we can clearly see where one cell ends and the other
one starts.
So let's go with border one pixel solid again colouring is up to you I'm going to go with the red and
there you go there are my container with my cells.
Now lastly I would also want to point it out that throughout tutorial I'm going to zoom in and zoom
out depending on situation.
Just so you can see clear of overall setup.
All right.
Now this is it.
We have our setup we have our email we have our sources and we are ready to deep dive into wonderful
world of seeing says grid.